The FBI has opened a criminal investigation focusing on the massive container ship that brought down the Francis Scott Key Bridge in Baltimore last month — a probe that will look at least in part at whether the crew left the port knowing the vessel had serious systems problems, according to two U.S. officials familiar with the matter.
Fast, informative and written just for locals. Get The 7 DMV newsletter in your inbox every weekday morning.
Authorities are reviewing the events leading up to the moment when the Dali, a 985-foot Singapore-flagged ship, lost power while leaving the Port of Baltimore and slammed into one of the bridge’s support pillars, said the officials, speaking on the condition of anonymity to discuss the ongoing probe.
On Monday morning, federal agents appeared to board the ship to conduct a search. Less than an hour after the sun rose at 6:30 a.m., a succession of three boats pulled to the port side of the Dali. About 6:50 a.m. Monday, people wearing yellow or orange life jackets entered the Dali through a lower door and climbed a ladder to the ship’s bow. About a half-hour later, nearly a dozen more people wearing dark clothing pulled up in a smaller boat and climbed aboard.
“The FBI is present aboard the cargo ship Dali conducting court authorized law enforcement activity,” the agency said in a statement Monday morning.
Officials boarded the Dali cargo ship on April 15 in the Patapsco River as the FBI opened an investigation into the collapse of the Francis Scott Key bridge. (Video: Hadley Green/The Washington Post)
The FBI said it did not have any additional public information and would not comment further. The Justice Department confirmed federal agents were on the ship conducting a “court-approved search.”
The criminal inquiry escalates efforts to determine what occurred leading to the crash and who should be held accountable for the disaster. News of the criminal inquiry emerged the same day Baltimore Mayor Brandon M. Scott announced that the city had hired two law firms to work with the city’s own legal team to “hold the wrongdoers responsible and to mitigate the immediate and long-term harm caused to Baltimore City residents.”
Grace Ocean Private Ltd. owns the Dali and Synergy Marine Pte Ltd. is the ship’s manager. Both are based in Singapore.
“My office generally will not confirm the existence of or otherwise comment about investigations,” Erek L. Barron, the U.S. attorney for Maryland, said in a statement. “However, the public should know, whether it’s gun violence, civil rights abuse, financial fraud, or any other threat to public safety or property, we will seek accountability for anyone who may be responsible.”