Donald Trump’s historic hush money trial is already shaping up to be a massive. months-long spectacle — with dozens of court officers being roped in from other boroughs to help staff the Manhattan court, The Post has learned.
The US Secret Service has been meeting with New York state court officers and the NYPD for at least two weeks over how to bolster security at Manhattan Supreme Court when the former president’s criminal trial kicks off Monday with jury selection, law enforcement sources said.
Possibly up to two officers from roughly 20 other courthouses each across the five boroughs are being pulled in as part of a “citywide effort” for the Republican presidential hopeful’s trial, the sources said.
The case, which marks the first time an ex-US president has gone on trial on criminal charges, is slated to last roughly six to eight weeks — and Trump will have to be there in person every day the court is in session.
The 45th president’s daily commute to Lower Manhattan, road closures around the courthouse and the additional manpower could be a costly exercise.
State court officials, though, refused to put a price tag on how much the high-profile trial was expected to cost taxpayers.

“All high-profile trials entail the use of considerable staffing resources,” said Al Baker, spokesperson for the state Office of Court Administration.
“The Courts have had to adjust staffing to provide for the additional security required at the Manhattan Criminal Court Building during this trial, but no new personnel have been hired. Budgets are not delineated to the specificity of individual cases.”
Court officers, meanwhile, said they were “excited” about raking in hours of overtime for the duration of the trial.
One veteran officer, who has already been assigned to Trump duty, said he’s expecting to work from 7 a.m. to 6 p.m. on trial days — meaning he’ll be pocketing at least four hours of overtime each day.
“This is Bragg money — not Trump money,” he told The Post, referring to Manhattan District Attorney Alvin Bragg, whose office is prosecuting the case — though overtime funds for court officers would likely come from the state, not the DA’s budget.
“I’m fine if they want to pay me extra. I get to protect the 47th president of the United States,” he added, apparently predicting a 2024 Trump win.Sgt. Patrick Cullen, who heads the NYS Supreme Court Officers Association, wouldn’t comment on specific staffing numbers for the trial but acknowledged that public employers were federally required to pay overtime.
“Our members will be more than sufficiently prepared to handle all public safety needs and challenges,” he said.
“I certainly can’t speak to the personal feelings about this case or any case that our members may have but, undoubtedly, their professionalism will, as always, be on display and proven to be unmatched.”
Several officers who helped secure the former president’s fraud trial at the nearby Manhattan Civil Court in February have already been told they, too, have to be on Trump watch starting from next week, according to court sources.
“A full force of officers making sure this is secure for the president and public,” Stephen Mikos, president of the NYS Court Officers Association union, said of the heightened security measures.
“They’ve done this before so they are ready for this,” he added.
“It’s the same security measures from the first time he showed up.”
Meanwhile, the NYPD will also boost its presence outside the courthouse and road closures will be implemented within the vicinity of the building, sources said.

Secret Service agents are set to assist cops and court officers both inside and outside the building, the sources added.
At Trump’s prior court appearances in the Manhattan criminal case, the NYPD had erected barricades outside the drab 100 Centre St. courthouse and blocked off several streets to the public so the ex-president’s motorcade could arrive and leave easily.
For those appearances, court officers had set up an additional layer of security and manned metal detectors just outside the 15th-floor courtroom.
Similar scenes are expected Monday.
Trump has pleaded not guilty to 34 felony counts of falsifying business records in connection to trying to cover up a payment to ex-porn star Stormy Daniels to keep her quiet about their alleged affair ahead of the 2016 election.
He faces up to four years in prison if convicted.
